Hello everyone and welcome back.
In this lesson we are going to take a look at security rules and encrypting our database inside a firestorm.
Some of you might have noticed that earlier in the course we copied that configuration object from firebase
that we used inside of our fan base utilize.
And that code contained an API key.
We pushed our code to get hub and perhaps in your mind you felt like something was wrong typically with
any other API key that you've probably ever used before or will ever use require you to hide it away
as a secret because you don't want to expose it publicly for other people to gain access with and then
start messing with your services that the API key uses to rely on.
This is technically correct for all of those cases but with firebase it's not the case because firebase
is security is handled differently from the API key being put somewhere secret.
The reason for this is because firebase has a very specific way that it wants you to encrypt your data.
And we do that using firebase as security rules.
The security rules is almost a language in itself and it has its own nuances that you kind of have to
get used to.
But it's relatively pretty easy to pick up once you start using it.
And hopefully with these lessons what I'm trying to show you is how you can set up your rules without
getting too in-depth but you can definitely get really granular if you want and you can go through the
link that I provide you with all of the documentation regarding the actual things you can do with the
security rules.
In the case of this chapter we're just going to take a look at how to encrypt our data so we protect
it in a reasonable way but also build a quick feature around the security rules.
So we see how we can tie react and our current existing application and all the things that we've learned
to these new firebase security rules that we're going to learn now the way that you actually access
these security rules is by going to the database tab inside of your firebase console and then going
to the rules tab inside of this rules tab you will see that this thing is broken into two parts on the
right hand side is where the actual language of the security rules live.
And we're just gonna ignore that for now.
And on the left hand side you'll probably only see one date that points to when you probably first instantiate
at your firebase console.
I have multiple and all this thing tracks is when you've updated your rules last.
In my case I've played around with it and update it a couple times because of course my database is
live for a lot of students to use.
So different students might accidentally write something to a database and ruin the experience for other
students so I have to encrypt my data more securely than yours.
Where are you right now you are just developing against it and you're probably the only person that's
using it in this case regardless moving forward.
This is a great thing to learn about when using firebase because the security rules is the primary way
that gives you a lot of flexibility and power and control over your fire based database.
So in yours if we focus on this right side now you might actually see that your says allow read and
write whereas mine only says allowed read so before we actually dive into what that means.
Let's first go line by line to understand what's happening here because firebase as language is kind
of particular.
So we have to learn about what the language is doing in this case.
This first line here service cloud fire store is mandatory.
All this says to Firebase is that the service we're writing these rules for is fire store which is the
service of our database.
Next the second line match databases with the database documents is also a mandatory line because this
is going into all of the document objects inside of our entire database.
This line represents that we want to write rules for our entire database.
And these two lines are both mandatory inside of this block here is where we will actually write all
of our rules so the way that the rules work is that they're always comprised of two parts.
The first is a match statement and the match statement points to a route these routes are going to be
built off of what specific routes we have in our database.
And there the routes that you've already used a little bit.
Whenever we were writing new documents or fetching collections inside of our firebase dot you telescope
that same parking structure that we saw and we've already understood about firebase is the same parsing
structure that it wants here although it's got a little bit more flexibility in terms of what we can
do with it.
For example here you'll see that this match statement goes slash document and then this two stars.
This is essentially a wild card that says that I want to write this match for every single document
inside of the database.
And the reason for this is because the rules are generally very general when you first set it up.
They don't want to impede you so they give you full allow write read and write permissions.
I cannot spell.
So what this is saying is that we are allowing anyone to read and write to every single document inside
of our database.
And this is perfectly fine when you first start developing.
But once we put this into production and we actually start shopping our e-commerce platform around then
we would want very specific and granular rules.
So there's always a match statement.
And then this gets to our second part.
There's always an allow statement the allow statement is exactly as it sounds.
It allows for specific things to be done to the documents inside of this route that we've just matched.
In our case there are two big general catch all methods slash rules that you can see allow read and
allow.
Right.
Allowing to read represents actually two different things.
It allows us to be able to get collections as well as get specific documents if we want it to be more
specific.
We could actually break read into both get and list if we do allow get then we're saying that we allow
anybody to access just specific documents so they can't actually fetch entire collections they can fetch
specific document allow list is the opposite.
It allows people to get the entire list but not get specific documents.
So that's pretty much what Reid breaks down into right.
On the other hand is pretty much broken into two main things that we're going to focus on.
There's a couple more granular things that you can see inside of the documentation that I'm going to
link in the resources folder.
But in this case what allow right breaks into is create as well as update so in this case create is
the ability to make new documents an update is the ability to update documents.
That's pretty much all it is.
So that's the thing to remember with all of these security rules we're going to write we're going to
make a block that represents a match pointing to one specific collection and the documents inside.
And then there are allow statements that we're going to write inside of this block that allow applications
to do certain things that we want them to do on that specific collection.
So for example if we want users to only be able to create users inside of our user collection but we
don't want them to update or delete them then we don't allow for those rules and we'll explore more
of how to actually do that in later lessons.
This is more so just a general idea of what the structure of these match blocks and these allow statements
are going to be so in the next lesson we're actually going to start writing some rules.
So let's do that.
I'll see you in the next lesson.